h1. Energy2D-JS

Energy2D-JS is a JavaScript port of the Java application: "Energy2D":http://energy.concord.org/energy2d/index.html

This JavaScript port supports simulation of thermal conductivity and convection in a 100x100 cell simulation space. 

A "demo":http://concord-consortium.github.com/energy2d-js/model2d-demo.html (currently the convective solver is not working).

If the browser supports "JavaScript Typed Arrays":https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript_typed_arrays Energy2D-JS will use use them for increased computational performance.

h2. Getting a browser that supports JavaScript Typed Arrays

"JavaScript Typed Arrays":https://developer.mozilla.org/en/JavaScript_typed_arrays are available in browsers that are WebGL-enabled. On some browsers using JavaScript Typed Arrays will speed up the modeling part of the simulation by a factor of two. Get more information about whether your browser supports WebGL here: "http://get.webgl.org/":http://get.webgl.org/.

h2. Benchmarks

Model steps/s measured over 100 model step iterations. [1]

h3. With model rendering *off*: [2]

|_. Browser                          |_. Typed Arrays   |_. Regular Arrays |
| Chrome 14.0.788.0 canary           |             27.1 |             11.1 |
| Chrome 10.0.648.127                |             19.5 |             12.7 |
| Webkit Nightly v88532              |             14.3 |              7.2 |
| FireFox nightly 7.0a1 (2011-06-09) |              6.3 |              5.3 |
| FireFox beta v5                    |              6.5 |              5.4 |
| FireFox 3.6.17                     |               na |              8.2 |
| Safari 5.0.5                       |               na |              7.0 |

h3. With all rendering *on*:

|_. Browser                          |_. Typed Arrays   |_. Regular Arrays |
| Chrome 14.0.788.0 canary           |              8.8 |              7.1 |
| Chrome 10.0.648.127                |              7.6 |              8.1 |
| Webkit Nightly v88532              |              6.7 |              4.8 |
| FireFox nightly 7.0a1 (2011-06-09) |              4.3 |              3.8 |
| FireFox beta v5                    |              4.2 |              3.7 |
| FireFox 3.6.17                     |               na |              0.9 |
| Safari 5.0.5                       |               na |              2.6 |

h3. Using an earlier version of Energy2D-JS as a computational benchmark [3]

Results from running this "benchmark":https://bug636096.bugzilla.mozilla.org/attachment.cgi?id=514432 

This benchmark was adapted by Mozilla developer Vladimir Vukicevic from an earlier version of Energy2D-JS to measure computational performance and runs 100 model iterations with no interaction with the browser's dom. These results should not be directly compared with the results above because the model operation has changed since the this adaptation.

*Tested on a MacBook Pro, 10.6.7, 2.66 GHz Intel Core i7 on 2011 06 09:*

|_. Browser                          |_.   Typed Arrays |
| Chrome 14.0.788.0 canary           |              175 |
| Chrome 10.0.648.127                |               43 |
| FireFox beta v5                    |               40 |
| FireFox nightly 7.0a1 (2011-06-09) |               38 |
| Webkit Nightly v88532              |               17 |

|_. Browser                          |_. Regular Arrays |
| FireFox 3.6.17                     |               36 |
| Safari 5.0.5                       |                8 |

*Testing on Android devices:*

|_. Device                           |_. Browser                          |_. Regular Arrays |
| Motorala Xoom, Android 3.01        | Opera Mobile: v11.00               |              2.4 |
|                                    | Dolphin Browser HD v4.6.           |              2.1 |
|                                    | Android Browser                     |             2.1 |
|                                    | SkyFire: v4.0                      |              2.1 |
|                                    | FireFox: v4.00 for Android         |              1.7 |
| Motorola Droid 2, Android 2.2      | FireFox: v4.00 for Android         |             1.43 |
|                                    | Android Browser                    |             1.25 |
| Original Motorola Droid            | FireFox: v4.00 for Android         |              0.6 |

I'm only reporting results for one of the WebKit-based browsers: Android Browser. The results for the other WebKit-based browsers (Dolphin and SkyFire) were similar.

*Testing on iOS devices:*

On an original iPad the model ran at about 1 step/s. On the iPad2 results are never reported.

*References*

fn1. _Tested on a MacBook Pro, 10.6.7, 2.66 GHz Intel Core i7 on 2011 06 09._

fn2. _The frame and model step rate counters are still being rendered to the browser's dom._

fn3. See the FireFox performance issue on the Mozilla bug-tracker: "really slow on earthmodel testcase/benchmark":https://bug636096.bugzilla.mozilla.org -- the benchmark can be run directly "here":https://bug636096.bugzilla.mozilla.org/attachment.cgi?id=514432
